.TH "_Key" 3 "Sat Jun 9 2012" "Version 0.8.1" "Elektra" \" -*- nroff -*-
.ad l
.nh
.SH NAME
_Key \- 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.PP
.PP
\fC#include <kdbprivate.h>\fP
.SS "Data Fields"

.in +1c
.ti -1c
.RI "union {"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "} \fBdata\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBdataSize\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "char * \fBkey\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBkeySize\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "keyflag_t \fBflags\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "size_t \fBksReference\fP"
.br
.ti -1c
.RI "\fBKeySet\fP * \fBmeta\fP"
.br
.in -1c
.SH "Detailed Description"
.PP 
The private Key struct.
.PP
Its internal private attributes should not be accessed directly by regular programs. Use the \fBKey access methods\fP instead. Only a backend writer needs to have access to the private attributes of the Key object which is defined as: 
.PP
.nf
typedef struct _Key Key;

.fi
.PP
 
.SH "Field Documentation"
.PP 
.SS "union { ... }   \fB_Key::data\fP"The value, which is a NULL terminated string or binary. 
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
keyString(), keyBinary(), 
.PP
\fBkeyGetString()\fP, \fBkeyGetBinary()\fP, 
.PP
\fBkeySetString()\fP, \fBkeySetBinary()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "size_t \fB_Key::dataSize\fP"Size of the value, in bytes, including ending NULL. 
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBkeyGetCommentSize()\fP, \fBkeySetComment()\fP, \fBkeyGetComment()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "keyflag_t \fB_Key::flags\fP"Some control and internal flags. 
.SS "char* \fB_Key::key\fP"The name of the key. 
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBkeySetName()\fP, \fBkeySetName()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "size_t \fB_Key::keySize\fP"Size of the name, in bytes, including ending NULL. 
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBkeyGetName()\fP, \fBkeyGetNameSize()\fP, \fBkeySetName()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "size_t \fB_Key::ksReference\fP"In how many keysets the key resists. \fBkeySetName()\fP is only allowed if ksReference is 0. 
.PP
\fBSee also:\fP
.RS 4
\fBksPop()\fP, \fBksAppendKey()\fP, \fBksAppend()\fP 
.RE
.PP

.SS "\fBKeySet\fP* \fB_Key::meta\fP"All the key's meta information. 

.SH "Author"
.PP 
Generated automatically by Doxygen for Elektra from the source code.
